- [Instructor] Let's look at some more
Docker Compose options that'll be useful for you.
The first Docker Compose option that we're going to look at is
how can we use multiple files using -f?
If you say docker compose up -d,
by default, it uses docker-compose.yml as a file name.
If there is docker-compose.override.yml,
then it uses that as well.
Using -f allows you to use multiple files
and we'll see why that is useful.
Then the second option that we're going to look at is
how can you extend the services.
We looked at docker-compose.override.yml
which allows you to extend or
override the services defined in docker-compose.yml,
but there is an extends clause that can be used
to explicitly extend the service from a different
configuration file, so to say.
Let's take a look at these.
What you want to do is you want to use multiple files and
look at how image and ports in those files behave.
This is the docker-compose.yml that we are familiar with.
We used this file in an earlier section.
This file has two services;
web
and db,
and it's using arungupta/couchbase-javaee
travel tag.
Then for the db, it's using arungupta/couchase:travel tag.
These are two services that are started.
The web service runs on port 8080 on host,
redirected to 8080 on the container,
and similarly there is 9990 to 9990 on the container.
For the db, we have 8091,
8092,
and 93,
and 11 to 10
redirected to corresponding ports on the container.
That's sort of the definition here.
Let's take a look at how can we change this a little bit?
Let's say I have
docker-compose.db.yml
here.
In this case, I have a
service web and a service db.
What that means is these two services
are going to override the services
that are defined in the parent service.
While override is a strong word,
but essentially ether extend the service
or override certain aspects of the service.
The first thing we look at is ports.
In this case, the port 8080 on the container is
being redirected from port 80 on the host.
In the previous case, we had 8080 on the host,
going to 8080 on the container.
This allows us to run or access our application
on port 80 instead.
The second part is in db, I'm using the image
called as couchbase:prod.
This may be a fully big of mine
which is ready for going into production
and I can use that image as opposed to
using some test image which is in
arungupta/couchbase domain.
If I use this compose.db
or docker-compose.db.yml file
in addition to docker-compose.yml,
let's see how can I do that.
These are the two big changes.
If I do docker-compose -f,
first of all I need to specify what is my primary file.
In this case, docker-compose.yml
and then I'm saying -f docker-compose.db.yml.
So I'm specifying my compose.yml as the basic file,
and then docker-compose.db.yml.
The order here really matters because
the file that is specified second
is overriding or extending the file
that is specified first.
You can essentially have multiple files specified
and the same rules will apply.
You can run your service like this.
You can see your services exactly using the same command
but instead of using up -d, you will say ps.
Similarly, you will shut down your services
using the same command.
Basically using the same -f switches
and then just say down.
That's kind of cool part about it.
Let's see how we can use multiple files
in the extends clause.
Let's assume we have a configuration.yml
in the same directory where my docker-compose.yml file is.
In configuration.yml for example,
I have environment variables defined.
Let's say my AWS_ACCESS_KEY and SECRET_KEY.
Those are defined over there.
Those typically you want to define once.
You really want to follow the whole principle of DRY.
You don't want to repeat those configuration information
multiple times in docker-compose.yml,
then what you're doing is you're using in the web service
the extends clause.
In the extends clause, you say file.
You're saying configuration.yml
essentially pointing to configuration.yml
in the same directory.
And you're saying, point to the service config
in configuration.yml.
It is pretty granular in that sense
that you can point to a file
and then you can point to a service within the file.
The path of the file configuration.yml
is resolved relative to docker-compose.yml essentially.
Then, you keep going on with your image,
with your volumes, with your ports, all of those.
When you fire up your service,
you can say docker-compose up -d
but in addition, if you want to see
where our files are being loaded,
you can actually use a --verbose switch
and it will show you what options are being used,
what files are being used,
in which order they have been used,
and what the definition it looks like.
We looked at several Docker Compose options.
Let's see how those options are used
to fulfill some common use cases.
The first use case is how you can easily do a dev setup.
Imagine a new developer joining your team
and you can't ask them to say install a JDK,
install a WildFly server, install these libraries,
do this Maven pull, do this checkout.
Instead of doing all of that setup, you can say,
here is my docker-compose.yml,
bring up, and your container's alive,
and your application is fully functional.
No downloading, installing, all of that.
One of the options in Docker Compose is
you can point it either to a host or to a cluster of host.
That can be very easily manipulated
using these environment variables.
These environment variables are useful
only when you're talking using say Docker Machine.
There are better ways when we are deploying
Docker Compose applications to a swarm mode cluster
and we'll take a look at that.
Docker Compose is fully integrated
whether you want to deploy it to a single host
which is what we have been doing so far
or multiple host
because it is fully integrated with swarm mode.
We'll see that pretty soon.
We already looked at how we can create
multiple isolated environments using -p option.
You can do a fully automated test setup.
You can just say docker-compose up,
your application comes up,
then you can say mvn test
and then you can bring the setup down.
That's pretty clean.
You don't even have to have Maven
installed in your local file
because Maven by itself is an image.
So you can use that Maven image and then run the test.
Last but not the least,
you could have minimized impedance mismatch between your
development and production environment.
In this case, for example,
you may bring up your development environment using
just docker-compose.yml
and in addition, you might have a production.yml
which would have production-specific settings
and depending upon how you are using -f options,
you can either run a development option
or a production environment.
That is completely up to you.
In this section, we saw some more Docker Compose options
and how those options can be used
to have some common use cases.